# About the results

The results compare the LER of the proposed neural SAC agent to belief propagation and BP+OSD, as well as a static baseline that performs no corrections and checks for errors within 10 environment steps.

In the environment evaluated here, the graph nodes consist of 5 binary features [is_qubit, is_x_check, is_z_check, x_syndrome, z_syndrome], with edges connecting stabilizers and data qubits as in the provided QEC code. The actor and critic networks both consist of a GNN encoder, comprised of three GraphConv layers. More than this seems to make the network overly complicated, causing irrecoverable overfitting on codes with 0-1 errors. The encoding is passed to an action MLP head, that outputs logits for each action, as well as a separate no-op head that outputs a single logit for no action, based on both the encoding and an additonal global mean pooling feature. The logits of both heads are concatenated, then an action is selected through argmax. The agent is trained on a curriculum, increasing the error rate of the environment initialization from 0.1% to 5% per physical qubit. 

The agent shows comparable performance to the baseline algorithms, though it appears to struggle slightly more. The agent is able to correct a low number of physical errors with high accuracy, though it shows no particular advantage in decoding high-physical-error codes compared to BP. 

In my experience, restricting the agent to a single discrete action each iteration allows for much more stability in training, whereas outputting a full correction chain with continuous values causes too much variance for the agent to properly learn anything. I am revisiting the idea though, since the agent's potential would be much higher if it can be trained properly; any ideas on this would be appreciated.

The no-op head can likely be removed entirely in favour of only prompting the network whenever a syndrome is measured, meaning the network is forced to flip a qubit but only encounters environments with errors. I opted to not implement this yet, since I'm not aware whether this would be a possibility to implement in a real-world setting. If removed, performance would likely increase since the option to do nothing (and in turn, force all qubit logits to be very low) does not have to be taken into account.

Another improvement not implemented here yet is the addition of syndrome history to the feature vector. For this, the graph encoding might need an additonal GRU/LSTM/Transformer head to account for accurate time embeddings, though considering how quick the agent overfits when adding additional GNN layers, a lot of additional stabilization / curriculum tuning needs to likely happen.

An interesting thing to investigate might be the performance of the agent trained on code on code B, to evaluate the generazation capabilities of the agent. This is difficult to implement with the current environment setup, since the agent computes embeddings for a certain number of qubits, but this may be achieved though training a graph encoder separately, then finetuning the MLP head on the specific code.

One final thing to note is that I believe BP+OSD should able to achieve an LER of 10^-6 on the [[144,12,12]] code, based on the papers I've read on the algorithm. I am not sure whether that discrepancy is due to addtional micro-optimizations by the authors that are missing from my implementation (from the ldpc python package), or that something unexpected is happening. The latter would likely cause the SAC agent to increase in performance as well.